DOC Update coding conventions (#397)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/05_Contributing/05_Coding_Conventions/01_PHP_Coding_Conventions.md

# PHP Coding Conventions

> This document provides guidelines for code formatting and documentation to developers contributing to Silverstripe. It applies to all PHP files in supported modules, as well as any additional modules under the `silverstripe` GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides guidelines for code formatting and documentation to developers contributing to Silverstripe CMS [core and supported modules](/project_governance/supported_modules/). It applies to all PHP files in supported modules, as well as any additional modules under the `silverstripe` GitHub account.
```

Author: Have gone with the second suggestion and just removed

Reviewer: Those were two separate suggestions, not competing ones. We still need to make this edit. Silverstripe is the company, Silverstripe CMS is the product.

> This document provides guidelines for code formatting and documentation to developers contributing to Silverstripe. It applies to all PHP files in supported modules, as well as any additional modules under the `silverstripe` GitHub account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document provides guidelines for code formatting and documentation to developers contributing to Silverstripe.
```
Theoretically community members can be made maintainers of some of those modules and can decide to have different standards - we shouldn't spent time or effort trying to police that.
The above edit will already mention core and supported modules, so we can just leave it at that I think.

Author: Updated

> Coding standards are an important aspect for every software project, and facilitate collaboration by making code more consistent and readable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is a very generic statement that should probably go in the generic [coding conventions](https://docs.silverstripe.org/en/5/contributing/coding_conventions/) page.

Author: I simply removed it

These conventions will work well in most situations, though sometimes you may need to not follow them for practical reasons.

> These coding conventions are for new code. Existing Silverstripe CMS code is inconsistent whether or not it follows these conventions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These coding conventions are for new code, and for situations where you are intentionally refactoring code for the purpose of improving coding standards (usually as part of a major release). Existing Silverstripe CMS code is inconsistent as to whether or not it follows these conventions.
```

Author: Updated

## General

> - Aim for [PSR-12 Coding Standards](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-12/) compliance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Aim for compliance with the [PSR-12 coding standards](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-12/).
```
From what I can see, PSR-12 doesn't have the title "Coding Standards", so we shouldn't capitalise that.

Author: Updated

- Prioritise the human readability of code over "clever" code that reduces the number of lines at the expense of readability.
- All symbols and documentation should use UK-English spelling (e.g. "behaviour" instead of "behavior"), except when necessitated by third party conventions (e.g using PHP's `Serializable` interface).

> - Avoid writing HTML in PHP code. Instead, put HTML is template files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid writing HTML in PHP code. Instead, put HTML is template files.
- Always respect semantic versioning. Refer to our [definition of public API](/project_governance/public_api/).
```
Yes this is a hard rule where most of these are strongly encouraged guidelines - but I think it's worth reiterating this here if for no other reason than to provide a link to the public API definition from this page.

Author: Semantic versioning is wrong in this context since that has to do with branch that a pull-request is targeting, rather than things like method naming - for instance it's not something that a linter could pickup if we just ran the linter on some files on our laptop

> - Avoid writing HTML in PHP code. Instead, put HTML is template files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid writing HTML in PHP code. Instead, put HTML in template files.
```

Author: Updated

## Naming conventions

### Casing

- Follow [PSR-1](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/#1-overview) for naming class names, method names, and class constants

> - Use [snake_case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case) for configuration variables which are used in both `private static` class properties as well as yml configuration.

Reviewer: The fact that configuration properties can be used in yaml I think is irrelevant for the PHP coding standards. Instead, we should clearly define what a configuration property is.
```suggestion
- Use [snake_case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case) for configuration properties (i.e. any `private static` properties not annotated with `@internal`)
```

Author: Updated

- Use [camelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case) for all other class properties

### Accessors

> - Prefix with 'get' for getters and 'set' for setters, for example `function getValue():string { return $this->value; }` and `function setValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prefix with 'get' for getter methods and 'set' for setter methods, for example `function getValue():string { return $this->value; }` and `function setValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.
```

Author: Updated

> - Prefix with 'get' for getters and 'set' for setters, for example `function getValue():string { return $this->value; }` and `function setValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.

Reviewer: Either expand this so it's easier to read:
````suggestion
- Prefix with 'get' for getters and 'set' for setters, for example:
    ```php
    function getValue(): string
    {
        return $this->value;
    }
    
    function setValue(string $value): void
    {
        $this->value = $value;
    }
    ```
````

Or just give very simple examples:
```suggestion
- Prefix with 'get' for getters and 'set' for setters, for example `getValue()` and `setValue`.
```

Personally I prefer the latter, but either is fine.

Author: Have gone with the latter

> ### File suffixes and prefixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Class name suffixes and prefixes
```

The name of the file is incidental, and matches the name of the class by PSR-4 convention. The important thing is the name of the class.

Author: Updated

> Suffix (sometimes prefix) classnames with the type of class that they subclass. The suffix/prefix is sometimes a shortened version of the parent class because it reads better while retaining easy comprehension. Here are some common examples with the parent classes in brackets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wse an appropriate suffix or prefix for classnames when making a subclass. Usually the suffix will be the classname of the parent class. Sometimes the suffix/prefix is sometimes a shortened version of the parent class because it reads better while retaining easy comprehension. Here are some common examples with the parent classes in brackets:
```
Changing the language so it doesn't say "use the parent class" and then immediately "but sometimes use the shortened parent class" and then have a list where some aren't parent class names at all.
Now it starts with "use a prefix/suffix" and then "usually it's the parent class and sometimes that's shortened" which I think is clearer, and more accurately represents the list.

Author: Updated

- `Admin` ([`ModelAdmin`](api:SilverStripe\Admin\ModelAdmin), [`LeftAndMain`]((api:SilverStripe\Admin\LeftAndAdmin)) if included in the CMS Menu)
- `Block` ([`BaseElement`](api:DNADesign\Elemental\Models\BaseElement))

> - `DB` ([`DBField`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBField)) - prefix instead of suffix

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `DB` ([`DBField`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBField)) - use as a prefix, e.g. `DBString`
```

Author: Updated

- `Controller` ([`Controller`](api:SilverStripe\Control\Controller))

> - `Exception` (PHP `Exception`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Exception` ([`Exception`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.exception.php))
```

Author: Updated

- `Extension` ([`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension))
- `Factory` ([`Factory`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Factory))
- `Filter` ([`SearchFilter`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Filters\SearchFilter))
- `Form` ([`Form`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\Form))
- `Field` ([`FormField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FormField))
- `Handler` ([`RequestHandler`](api:SilverStripe\Control\RequestHandler))
- `Page` ([`SiteTree`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree))
- `Job` ([`AbstractQueuedJob`](api:Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob))

> - `Service` (Class only instantiated as a singleton)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
As per https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397#discussion_r1384389049

If it's only intantiated as a singleton, then `singleton` would be a better suffix (but don't add that either). Basically, I don't think we should be suffixing anything with `Service` as it's not a meaningful suffix.

Author: Removed

- `Task` ([`BuildTask`](api:SilverStripe\Dev\BuildTask))

## Directory naming - src dir

> - Put similar types of classes in the same directory. For example, put Controllers in a `Controllers` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Follow the [PSR-4 coding standard](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/)
- Put similar types of classes in the same directory. For example, put Controllers in a `Controllers` directory
```

Author: Updated

> - Put DataObject's in a directory called `Models`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Put `DataObject` subclasses in a directory called `Models`
```

Author: Updated

> - If you end up with a lot of classes of a specific type with some clear grouping, you can use subdirectories to group them - e.g. `src/Models/Sports` if you have a ton of sports related models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you end up with a lot of classes of a specific type with some clear grouping, you can use subdirectories to group them (e.g. `src/Models/Sports` if you have a ton of sports related models).
```
As per https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397#discussion_r1384046938

> - Use initial caps pluralised for the directory naming e.g. use `Controllers` rather than `Controller` or `controllers`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use initial caps pluralised for the directory naming (e.g. use `Controllers` rather than `Controller` or `controllers`)
```
As per https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397#discussion_r1384046938

> - Use initial caps pluralised for the directory naming e.g. use `Controllers` rather than `Controller` or `controllers`

Reviewer: Move the "initial caps pluralised" point to be second (below the new point about PSR-4) as it leads context to the rules that mention specific names (Models and Controllers)

## Properties and accessors

- Do not use public properties, instead use a combination of non-public properties and public getter and setter methods.
- For setter methods use a combination of a `:static` return type and `return $this` to allow for fluent programming.
- Do not use [dynamic properties](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.properties.php#language.oop5.properties.dynamic-properties)

> ## Method, property, and constant non-public visibility

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Method, property, and constant visibility
```
Add any public in here as well. Just treat all visibility together.

So, add "no public properties" and "methods and constants should be public only if they are intended to be called from outside the class hierarchy" in here, and remove those points from wherever they are currently.

Author: Updated

- Prefer `private` over `protected` for all new properties. Subclasses can access the properties through the public getter and setter methods.

> - Prefer `private` over `protected` for new methods, unless there is a clear use case for customising the specific functionality of that method on its own and the method implementation is unlikely to change in the near future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prefer `private` over `protected` for new methods, unless:
    - there is a clear use case for customising the specific functionality of that method on its own and the method implementation is unlikely to change in the near future
    - the method is intended to be called by subclasses.
```

Author: Updated

> - Prefer `private` over `protected` for constants, unless they are intended to be used in subclasses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prefer `private` over `protected` for constants, unless they are intended to be used in subclasses.
- If someone requests a `private` method, property, or constant be made `protected` so that they can use it in their project or module code, that change should be made unless there's a really good reason no to.
```
As per https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397#discussion_r1384368726, to avoid "no because our standards say use private"

Author: Updated

## Interfaces

- Create an interface for type hinting if there are (or are likely to be in the future) multiple classes implementing a specific feature. Use the interface for type hints (e.g. for parameters, properties, and return types), and as the service key for injector.
- If there is only a single implementation and no foreseeable expectation of more implementations being added, then do not create an interface for the single class implementation because this would only be adding unnecessary complexity.

## Typing

> - Aim to strongly type all new properties, method parameters, and method return types. This includes files where there is no existing strong typing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Strongly type all new properties, method parameters, and method return types. This includes files where there is no existing strong typing.
```

Author: Updated

- Only provide docblock types for strongly typed parameters or return values if more context is provided.

## Mixed types

- Where practical avoid using mixed types, including type unions, because this leads to complicated and brittle code.
- Avoid using nullable scalars and instead use the default value of the scalar instead of null. One exception to this is for when `null` means 'uninitialised'.
- Avoid using `func_get_args()`.

## Object instantiation

> - For classes with the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, use Injector to instantiate objects using the `::create()` static method rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For classes with the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, use [`Injector`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector) to instantiate objects using the `::create()` static method rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.
```
If we're saying "Injector" with a capital "I", it's a code reference.

Alternatively:
```suggestion
- For classes with the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, use the injector to instantiate objects using the `::create()` static method rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.
```

Author: Gone with `the injector`

> - For classes with the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, use Injector to instantiate objects using the `::create()` static method rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For classes with the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, use Injector to instantiate objects using the `::create()` static method rather than the `new` keyword.
```
We haven't added rationales for almost any standard here - I don't think we need to justify this one either.

Author: Updated, and have used `create()` instead of `::create()` to match change below

> - For classes with the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, use Injector to instantiate objects using the `::create()` static method rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For classes with the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, use Injector to instantiate objects using the `create()` static method rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.
```

Author: Updated

> - For non-third-party classes without the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, consider adding the `Injectable` trait, or use the `new` keyword.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think we need this point at all. But if we do, "non-third-party" is a bit clunky so maybe just assume we're never talking about third-party code unless we explicitly say "third-party".
```suggestion
- For classes without the [`Injectable`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injectable) trait, either add the `Injectable` trait to the class or use the `new` keyword to instantiate it.
```

Author: Updated

- For third-party classes, [use `Injector` directly](/developer_guides/extending/injector/#basic-usage) to instantiate objects rather than the `new` keyword.
- For unit tests, always use the `new` keyword when instantiating objects unless you are explicitly testing the injector logic.

## Extensions and traits

> - Use the [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) class for extending classes, including DataObjects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) class for extending classes, including `DataObject` subclasses.
```

Author: Updated

> - Do not use the DataExtension class, it will be deprecated in a future release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not use the `DataExtension` class, it will be deprecated in a future release.
```
Needs backticks since it's code. Don't bother adding a link though, since we're saying explicitly _don't_ use it, nobody should care what the API is for it.

Author: Updated

Use a trait instead of an [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) when the composable functionality:

> - Relies on per-instance properties, which cannot be added to extensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Relies on per-instance properties, because they cannot be used with extensions
```
The wording could have been interpreted to suggest that there are cases where per-instance properties _can_ be used with extensions - but they can't.

Author: Updated

- Does not add or modify configuration properties or values
- Is not expected to be applied to third-party code.

Use an [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) instead of a trait when the composable functionality:

- Does not rely on per-instance properties
- Adds or modifies configuration properties or values
- Could be expected to be applied to third-party code.

### Extension hooks

> - For hooks that update a value before it's returned, name the hook `update{MethodName}` where `MethodName` has any prefix `get` removed. For example `getMyValue()` would have an extension hook named `updateMyValue()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For hooks that update a value before it's returned, name the hook `update{PropertyName}`. For example `getMyValue()` would have an extension hook named `updateMyValue()`.
```
There are many cases, such as the example I gave in https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397#discussion_r1384031843, where the `update` hook is used to update a property in the middle of an execution method, and therefore it isn't the name of the method but the name of the _property_ which is used in the update hook name.

Author: That's actually a pretty bad example, it's updating a variable and the hook doesn't match the variable name

That said, there are plenty of cases where `update` hooks just update variables mid method - I'll add a point for this

It is also pretty common for them to do what I originally said of updating a method return value and the hook matches the method name e.g. https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-asset-admin/blob/2/code/Controller/AssetAdmin.php#L1198

Reviewer: > That's actually a pretty bad example, it's updating a variable and the hook doesn't match the variable name

It's an example of where the standard described here doesn't work - not an example of a good standard :p
I'm okay with the change you've made though.

> - For hooks that apply before or after another method is called within the method, name the hook `onBefore{MethodName}` or `onAfter{MethodName}` respectively. For instance if a method calls `processSomething()` call the hook `onBeforeProcessSomething()`.

Reviewer: Can you please show me some examples of this? The classic examples of `onBeforeX` are `onBeforeWrite` and `onAfterWrite`, which are called _inside_ the `write()` method on `DataObject`
https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/blob/f22282acb2723bf3dd63a6220bb09e25067cc839/src/ORM/DataObject.php#L1598C22-L1598C22

I believe the before/after publish, delete, and other ORM operations are the same.

Author: Ah yup you're right. onBefore / onAfter is done at the start / end of the method of the same name

Author: Have updated

> ## Class Member Ordering

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Class member ordering
```
Headings must use sentence case.

Author: Updated

Order code in classes in the following order:

- Class constants

> - Data-model definition static properties (`$db`, `$has_one`, `$many_many`, etc)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Configuration properties (i.e. private static properties that don't have the `@internal` annotation)
```
Seems like this is essentially what is meant here - and applies to more than just `DataObject` subclasses.

Author: Updated

- Static properties
- Member properties
- Static methods
- Controller action methods
- Commonly used methods like `getCMSFields()`
- Accessor methods (`getMyField()` and `setMyField()`)
- Template data-access methods (methods that will be called by a `$MethodName` or `<% loop $MethodName %>` construct in a template somewhere)
- Object methods

## Inline comments

- If there is a non-obvious reason for a code operation, include inline comments that explain *why* we are doing this operation. Remember that while something may be obvious to you now, it will not be obvious to someone else in 6 months.

> - Self explanatory code with well-named methods and variables is preferred to inline comments that explain *what* the code does, though it's still OK to include these sorts of comments if you think it makes the code easier to follow. This is often the case for larger methods, though it may be better to simply split those methods into several private methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Self explanatory code with well-named methods and variables is preferred to inline comments that explain *what* the code does, though it's still OK to include these sorts of comments if you think it makes the code easier to follow.
```
IMO talking about long methods here leaps right out of scope for discussing inline comments.

Author: Updated

### Unit testing

- Unit test method names should match the method that they're testing with the first letter of the method uppercased and the word `test` prefixed (e.g. for the method `myMethodName()` the unit test method should be called `testMyMethodName()`).

> - Aim to use the `@dataProvider` annotation to provide test case data as it makes code much cleaner and it makes it very easy to add additional test cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the `@dataProvider` annotation to provide test case data when you are testing the same method in multiple scenarios. It makes code much cleaner and it makes it very easy to add additional test cases.
```

Author: Updated

- Unit test method names should match the method that they're testing with the first letter of the method uppercased and the word `test` prefixed (e.g. for the method `myMethodName()` the unit test method should be called `testMyMethodName()`).
- Aim to use the `@dataProvider` annotation to provide test case data as it makes code much cleaner and it makes it very easy to add additional test cases.
- Data provider method names should be same as the test case method name they're providing for with the leading work `test` substituted for `provide` (e.g. for `testSomething()` the DataProvider is `provideSomething()`).
- Data provider array keys should describe the scenario they're testing.
- Unless you need to explicitly create dynamic fixtures, fixtures should be added via yaml fixture files.
- It's usually OK to use reflection to change the visibility of a private or protected method so that it can be tested independently. It is generally preferable to keep a smaller public API surface and use reflection to test functionality, rather than making the API public just so it can be tested.

## Secure Development
## Raw SQL

> See [security](/developer_guides/security) for conventions related to handing security permissions.

Reviewer: Add the secure development section and link back in.

Author: It's not related to code conventions at all?

It just seems like a random link

Reviewer: Discussed offline - agreed that this page is essentially for things that can be linted, sniffed, or detected through fairly basic static analysis and therefore the security guidelines are out of scope.

> - Avoid writing raw SQL where possible, instead use ORM methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid writing raw SQL, instead use ORM methods.
```
The "avoid" already implies "where possible"

Author: Updated

> - If you do write raw SQL, use double quotes around table/column names and use parameterised queries where possible e.g. `->where(['"Score" > ?' => 50])`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you do write raw SQL, use double quotes around table/column names and use parameterised queries where possible (e.g. `->where(['"Score" > ?' => 50])`).
```
As per https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397#discussion_r1384046938

Author: Removed paranthesis and changed e.g. to for example

> ## Other convensions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Other conventions
```

Author: Updated

> - Avoid hardcoding values when there is a method available to dynamically get a value, for example use [`DataObjectSchema::tableName()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObjectSchema::tableName()) to get the table name for a DataObject rather than hard coding it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid hardcoding values when there is a method available to dynamically get a value, for example use [`DataObjectSchema::tableName()`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\DataObjectSchema::tableName()) to get the table name for a `DataObject` model rather than hard coding it.
```

Author: Updated

# PHP Coding Conventions

This document provides guidelines for code formatting and documentation to developers contributing to Silverstripe.

These conventions will work well in most situations, though sometimes you may need to not follow them for practical reasons.

These coding conventions are for new code, and for situations where you are intentionally refactoring code for the purpose of improving coding standards (usually as part of a major release). Existing Silverstripe CMS code is inconsistent as to whether or not it follows these conventions.

## General

- Aim for compliance with the [PSR-12 coding standards](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-12/).
- Prioritise the human readability of code over "clever" code that reduces the number of lines at the expense of readability.

> - All symbols and documentation should use UK-English spelling, for example "behaviour" instead of "behavior", except when necessitated by third party conventions (e.g using PHP's `Serializable` interface).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All symbols and documentation should use UK-English spelling, for example "behaviour" instead of "behavior" except when necessitated by third party conventions, for example using PHP's `Serializable` interface.
```

Author: Updated

- Avoid writing HTML in PHP code. Instead, put HTML in template files.

## Naming conventions

### Casing

- Follow [PSR-1](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/#1-overview) for naming class names, method names, and class constants
- Use [snake_case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case) for configuration properties (i.e. any `private static` properties not annotated with `@internal`)
- Use [camelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case) for all other class properties

### Accessors

- Prefix with "get" for getter methods and 'set' for setter methods, for example `getValue()` and `setValue()`.

### Class name suffixes and prefixes

> Use an appropriate suffix or prefix for classnames when making a subclass. Usually the suffix will be the classname of the parent class. Sometimes the suffix/prefix is sometimes a shortened version of the parent class because it reads better while retaining easy comprehension. Here are some common examples with the parent classes in brackets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use an appropriate suffix or prefix for classnames when making a subclass. Usually the suffix will be the classname of the parent class. Sometimes the suffix/prefix is a shortened version of the parent class because it reads better while retaining easy comprehension. Here are some common examples with the parent classes in brackets:
```
Sorry, should have noticed this one last time.

Author: Updated

- `DB` ([`DBField`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBField)) - use as a prefix, e.g. `DBString`
- `Controller` ([`Controller`](api:SilverStripe\Control\Controller))
- `Exception` ([`Exception`](https://www.php.net/manual/en/class.exception.php))
- `Extension` ([`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension))
- `Factory` ([`Factory`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Factory))
- `Filter` ([`SearchFilter`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\Filters\SearchFilter))
- `Form` ([`Form`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\Form))
- `Field` ([`FormField`](api:SilverStripe\Forms\FormField))
- `Handler` ([`RequestHandler`](api:SilverStripe\Control\RequestHandler))
- `Page` ([`SiteTree`](api:SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree))
- `Job` ([`AbstractQueuedJob`](api:Symbiote\QueuedJobs\Services\AbstractQueuedJob))
- `Task` ([`BuildTask`](api:SilverStripe\Dev\BuildTask))

## Directory naming - src dir

- Follow the [PSR-4 coding standard](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/)
- Use initial caps pluralised for the directory naming. For example, use `Controllers` rather than `Controller` or `controllers`
- Put similar types of classes in the same directory. For example, put Controllers in a `Controllers` directory

> - Put DataObject subclasses in a directory called `Models`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Put `DataObject` subclasses in a directory called `Models`
```

- If you end up with a lot of classes of a specific type with some clear grouping then you can use subdirectories to group them. For example use `src/Models/Sports` if you have a lot of sports related models.

## Properties and accessors

- For setter methods use a combination of a `static` return type and `return $this` to allow for fluent programming.
- Do not use [dynamic properties](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.properties.php#language.oop5.properties.dynamic-properties)

## Method, property, and constant visibility

- Avoid `public` properties, instead use a combination of `private` (or `protected`) properties and `public` getter and setter methods.
- Prefer `private` over `protected` for all new properties. Subclasses can access the properties through the public getter and setter methods.
- Prefer `private` over `protected` for new methods, unless:
    - There is a clear use case for customising the specific functionality of that method on its own and the method implementation is unlikely to change in the near future
    - The method is intended to be called by subclasses.

> - Prefer `private` over `protected` for constants, unless they are intended to be used in subclasses.

Reviewer: Probably need to note to use public for constants that should be accessed outside the class hierarchy, otherwise it sounds like we only ever use private or protected for constants and therefore have to use other ways (such as getter methods) to access that data from external classes.

Author: Updated

- Do not use the `DataExtension` class, it will be deprecated in a future release.

Use a trait instead of an [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) when the composable functionality:

- Relies on per-instance properties, because they cannot be used with extensions
- Does not add or modify configuration properties or values
- Is not expected to be applied to third-party code.

Use an [`Extension`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Extension) instead of a trait when the composable functionality:

- Does not rely on per-instance properties
- Adds or modifies configuration properties or values
- Could be expected to be applied to third-party code.

### Extension hooks

- For hooks that update the value that's returned, name the hook `update{MethodName}` where `MethodName` has any prefix `get` removed. For example `getMyValue()` would have an extension hook named `updateMyValue()`.
- For hook that update a variable in the middle of a method, name the hook `update{Variable}` where `Variable` is the name of the variable being updated. For example if a method has a variable called `$myValue` then the hook would be named `updateMyValue()`.

> - For hooks that update method parameters before running the body of the method, name the hook `onBefore{MethodName}`. For instance if a method calls `processSomething()` call the hook `onBeforeProcessSomething()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For hooks that update method parameters before running the body of the method, name the hook `onBefore{MethodName}`. For instance if a method is called `processSomething()` call the hook `onBeforeProcessSomething()`.
```

Author: Updated

> - If the method has an `onBefore` hook and also has a hook to update value that's returned, then second hook should be called `onAfter{MethodName}` rather than `update{MethodName}`.

Reviewer: This onafter one is a bit confusing. I'd prefer it just be the same wording as for the `onBefore` one.

Author: Updated

## General

- Aim for compliance with the [PSR-12 coding standards](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-12/).
- Prioritise the human readability of code over "clever" code that reduces the number of lines at the expense of readability.
- All symbols and documentation should use UK-English spelling, for example "behaviour" instead of "behavior" except when necessitated by third party conventions, for example using PHP's `Serializable` interface.
- Avoid writing HTML in PHP code. Instead, put HTML in template files.

## Naming conventions

### Casing

- Follow [PSR-1](https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/#1-overview) for naming class names, method names, and class constants
- Use [snake_case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case) for configuration properties (i.e. any `private static` properties not annotated with `@internal`)
- Use [camelCase](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case) for all other class properties

### Accessors

> - Prefix with "get" for getter methods and 'set' for setter methods, for example `getValue()` and `setValue()`.

Reviewer 2: Whe're using double quotes for the first one and single quotes for the second one.

```suggestion
- Prefix with `get` for getter methods and `set` for setter methods, for example `getValue()` and `setValue()`.
```

Author: Updated

}
```

## Code style

> - Prioritise the human readability of code. Avoid "clever" code that aims to reduce the number of lines at the expense of readbability. This is particularly important when writing Javascript.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Prioritise the human readability of code. Avoid "clever" code that aims to reduce the number of lines at the expense of readability. This is particularly important when writing JavaScript code.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm generally OK with this one as long as "clever" is interpreted sensibly. 

e.g. I once saw an argument where someone was using a newer PHP syntax that the reviewer wasn't familiar with and push back on it.

Reviewer: @maxime-rainville Are you suggesting a change here (e.g. specifying what is meant by "clever")? The documentation can't choose how people interpret it, but it can be written in ways that are less ambiguous.

Reviewer 2: I'm fine with using the word "clever" here. If people start arguing what is "clever" and what isn't, we can revisit.

> - Prioritise the human readability of code. Avoid "clever" code that aims to reduce the number of lines at the expense of readbability. This is particularly important when writing Javascript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Prioritise the human readability of code. Avoid "clever" code that aims to reduce the number of lines at the expense of readbability.
```
There's a separate page for JavaScript. This one's just about PHP. If there are a lot of common ideaologies like this, maybe take them out of the specific-language pages and put them in the over-arching standards page (with a `[hint]` here calling them out)

> - Avoid writing any new "magic" code as it is very hard to follow.

Reviewer: Should we specify what is meant by "magic" here?

Reviewer 2: Yeah ... I think "magic" is not clear to me here.

One definition of "magic" that get toss around some time is "abstraction that a developer can use without understanding what's going on underneath".

They are scenarios where avoiding this make sense. e.g. When it applies to a marginal usecase or a usecase that is likely to require a lot of customisation.

They are other scenarios where "magic" is essential. e.g. the ORM.

Author: Removed

> - Within reason, favour larger files that have everything contained in them rather than multiple small files that require developers to jump around multiple files to follow a single code path.

Reviewer 4: Considering we advise against this in PHP land (1 class per file) I think we should stick with a preference is for a single file to be used for a single class / object to make life easier to find. Sure the trade off is multiple files but most users would be used to that (i.e jumping between PageController.php and Page.php

Reviewer 3: Agree here, perhaps we need to explicitly mention to still keep 1 class per file.

Reviewer: I agree with Wilr. `Versioned` for example is a great example of putting too much in one file (yes it's all one class, but that class has too many concerns IMO). And _definitely_ we should explicitly say one class per file.

Maybe something like this
```suggestion
- Each class, interface, enum, and trait must be in its own file.
- Each class, interface, enum, and trait should adhere to the [single responsibility principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-responsibility_principle) where practical.
```

Reviewer 5: @GuySartorelli's suggestion is much better here. I think arbitrarily saying "please make large files" is a really bad idea, and developers should expect to jump around a bunch in code that is well abstracted. It should make sense though.

Author: Sorry I definitely meant one class per file, would fail PSR linting if you had more than one anyway I think.

Probably more a preference thing on my part against over abstractions, I'm not a fan of seeing a handful of 100 line files which would have easily been condensed into single file that would have been half the size and easier to comprehend.  I get that approach doesn't scale well though.

Reviewer 2: This line could be interpreted to go against the concept of "composability". e.g.: Let's say you have a big class with 50 methods. Out of those, 10 methods are intertwined and keep calling each other to achieve a specific purpose. Those 10 methods would be a good candidate to be extracted into a trait.

On a more generic concern I would avoid expression like "Within reason" in this document as this could apply to all the points on the page.

Author: Have removed line

Reviewer: We should still mention at least "Each class, interface, enum, and trait must be in its own file." if not the single reposibility pattern, as mentioned in https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397#discussion_r1383908409

Author: It's already covered by PSR-1 / PSR-12 - https://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-1/#3-namespace-and-class-names

## Inline comments

> - If there is a non-obvious reason for a code operation, include verbose inline comments that explain *why* we are doing this operation. Remember that while something may be obvious to you now, it won't be obvious to someone else in 6 months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there is a non-obvious reason for a code operation, include inline comments that explain *why* we are doing this operation. Remember that while something may be obvious to you now, it won't be obvious to someone else in 6 months.
```
Let's not say "verbose" here - we can let the developer and reviewer decide what the appropriate level of verbosity is when they do the work. Saying "verbose" here encourages comments that are _overly_ verbose and interrupt the readability of the code.

Author: Updated

> - Inline comments that explain *what* the code is doing are generally fine as it can make code easier to follow and is particularly useful for larger methods, though it may be better to simply split larger methods in to several private methods.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Inline comments that explain *what* the code is doing are generally fine as it can make the code easier to follow and could be particularly useful for larger methods, though it may be better to simply split larger methods into several private methods.
```

Reviewer: Maybe add a note here about self-explanatory code with well-named variables and methods is preferable to inline comments.

Author: Done

## Naming conventions

### Casing

- Use `camelCase` for variables, method names and parameters
- Use `UpperCamelCase` for class names, interfaces, traits and enums
- Use `snake_case` for private static configuration properties.
- Use `SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE` for constants including class contants, and environment variables

> - Note that there will be some inconsistencies with legacy code where static methods have been a combination of `MyClass::camelCase()` and `MyClass::snake_case()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Note that there will be some inconsistencies with legacy code which doesn't follow these naming conventions. Don't try to refactor those outside of major releases, unless they are in the private scope.
```
Two things here:
1. There's a lot more than just the inconsistency mentioned there, it's easier to just say there are inconsistencies and not list the types of inconsistencies
2. Adding a note to discourage people refactoring naming conventions when it would be a breaking change - but allow it when it wouldn't be.

Reviewer 5: Most of this is covered in the PSRs we say we follow I really don't think it's worth re-stating it.

Author: That's a good point about PSR. The use of `snake_case` for private static configuration properties is a Silverstripe convention though so that's worth keeping.  We can simply refer to PSR-12 docs for everything else.

Author: Have updated to refer to PSR-1

### Accessors

> - For accessors omit the leading 'get' with getters and prefix with 'set' for setters. e.g. `function myValue():sting { return $this->value; }` and `function setMyValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- For accessors omit the leading 'get' for getters and prefix with 'set' for setters, e.g. `function myValue():string { return $this->value; }` and `function setMyValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.
```

Author: Done

> - For accessors omit the leading 'get' with getters and prefix with 'set' for setters. e.g. `function myValue():sting { return $this->value; }` and `function setMyValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Omit the leading 'get' with getters and prefix with 'set' for setters. e.g. `function myValue():sting { return $this->value; }` and `function setMyValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.
```

Author: Updated to include `get`

> - For accessors omit the leading 'get' with getters and prefix with 'set' for setters. e.g. `function myValue():sting { return $this->value; }` and `function setMyValue(string $value): void { $this->value = $value; }`.

Reviewer: I don't think I agree with this. Can you please explain the rationale behind this? Are there existing standards you're drawing from that you can point me to?

One reason I don't agree is because typing `$obj->get` in my IDE is a good way to get a feeling for what methods exist that will give me values (as opposed to methods that set values, or which modify values, etc)

Another reason is that the templating language has a nice syntactic sugar where you can use `$MyValue` and it will call `getMyValue()`. Using `$getMyValue` looks weird in a template, because we really want to just treat it like a property in that context.

Reviewer 5: I also agree that we should prefix getters with `get`. I'd say instances we don't do this is legacy. The modern trend is that we use `get` (or `is` for boolean accessors). Not having `get` or `is` just adds to developer friction imo.

Author: Yeah fair, `get` prefix does make things more obvious which is what I'm aiming for

Reviewer 2: > omit the leading 'get' with getters

That contradicts how ViewableData works. https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/blob/8680b6bfb93235547bfac29fcbd9edc8b13c7ab9/src/View/ViewableData.php#L136-L151

I've never come across a library or framework that uses getter/setters that doesn't prefix its getters with `get`. I strongly oppose that recommendation.

Author: Have updated to include the `get` prefix

- Note that there will be some inconsistencies with legacy code as get accessors have been a combination of "with get", "without get", and "without get with the first letter uppercased"

### File suffixes and prefixes

> - This is for new classes and interfaces that are created. Legacy Silvesrtripe code is inconsistent whether or not it follows these conventions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- This is for new classes and interfaces that are created. Legacy Silverstripe CMS code is inconsistent whether or not it follows these conventions.
```

Author: Have moved to top of page

> - This is for new classes and interfaces that are created. Legacy Silvesrtripe code is inconsistent whether or not it follows these conventions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is for new classes and interfaces that are created. Legacy Silvesrtripe code is inconsistent whether or not it follows these conventions.

```
Keep this out of the list, since it's just giving context to the list of standards rather than being a standard itself.

Reviewer 2: Yeah ... I think we could just put that the top of the page once.

Author: Have moved to top and removed from various bullet points

> - Suffix the classnames with the type of class that is subclassed. The suffixed is sometimes a shortened version of the parent class because it reads better while retaining easy comprehension. Here are some common examples with the parents classes in brackets

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Suffix the classnames with the type of class that they subclass. The suffix name is sometimes a shortened version of the parent class because it reads better while retaining easy comprehension. Here are some common examples with the parent classes in brackets:
```

Author: Done

  - `Exception` (Exception)
  - `Controller` (Controller)
  - `Extension` (Extension, DataExtension)
  - `Admin` (ModelAdmin)
  - `Handler` (RequestHandler)
  - `Filter` (SearchFilter)
  - `Form` (Form)
  - `Field` (FormField)
  - `Job` (QueuedJob)
  - `Task` (BuildTask)

>   - `Service` (generic class type that has no parent class)

Reviewer: This is suggesting that any new class which doesn't have a parent class should be suffixed with "Service", which won't be appropriate in many cases. If we're going to list Service here, we should probably declare some rules about what makes a Service vs a literally-anything-else.
Might be easier to just not include this suffix.

Reviewer 5: Generally we used to avoid even having `Service` in the name because it's not at all descriptive of what it actually is. It actually seems to indicate that your "service" has no clear responsibility.

Reviewer 2: I'm not necessarily against calling a class "SomethingService".

In my mind, a "Service" refers to a class that should only have one instance at any given time and provide few specific methods to preform dedicated tasks. Our services are normally instantiated with Injector.

There's a couple places where we bolted a lot of Service-type static methods on classes that are meant to be used as instance. (I'm looking at you `Permission` and `Member`)

That's the list of current `*Service` class we got.
```
silverstripe/session-manager/src/Services/GarbageCollectionService.php
silverstripe/staticpublishqueue/src/Service/UrlBundleService.php
silverstripe/staticpublishqueue/tests/php/QueuedJobsTestService.php
silverstripe/silverstripe-fluent/src/Service/CopyToLocaleService.php
silverstripe/documentconverter/tests/Stubs/MockDocvertService.php
silverstripe/ldap/src/Services/LDAPService.php
silverstripe/solr-php-client/Apache/Solr/Service.php
silverstripe/framework/src/Core/Injector/AopProxyService.php
silverstripe/framework/src/ORM/RelatedData/RelatedDataService.php
silverstripe/framework/src/ORM/RelatedData/StandardRelatedDataService.php
silverstripe/framework/src/ORM/UniqueKey/UniqueKeyService.php
silverstripe/framework/src/Security/SudoMode/SudoModeService.php
silverstripe/framework/src/Security/DefaultAdminService.php
silverstripe/framework/src/Dev/Validation/RelationValidationService.php
silverstripe/framework/tests/php/Core/Injector/AopProxyServiceTest/SampleService.php
silverstripe/framework/tests/php/Core/Injector/AopProxyServiceTest/AnotherService.php
silverstripe/fulltextsearch/src/Search/Services/SearchableService.php
silverstripe/fulltextsearch/src/Solr/Services/Solr4Service.php
silverstripe/fulltextsearch/src/Solr/Services/SolrService.php
silverstripe/fulltextsearch/src/Solr/Services/Solr3Service.php
silverstripe/fulltextsearch/tests/BatchedProcessorTest/BatchedProcessor_QueuedJobService.php
silverstripe/fulltextsearch/tests/SolrReindexQueuedTest/SolrReindexQueuedTest_Service.php
silverstripe/fulltextsearch/tests/Solr4ServiceTest/Solr4ServiceTest_RecordingService.php
silverstripe/realme/src/RealMeService.php
silverstripe/assets/src/Storage/FileHashingService.php
silverstripe/assets/src/Storage/Sha1FileHashingService.php
```

Author: Can we use `Manager` instead then :trophy: :-)

(will delete)

>   - `Service` (generic class type that has no parent class)

Reviewer 2: I think we should add `Factory` in here as well. Maybe we should add a `Block` entry as well for Elemental blocks.

I think the list should be sorted alphabetically for consistency. 

We use the DB *prefix* as well. I'm not sure if this should be called out here.

Author: Yup will add in DB for subclasses of DBField

Author: Updated

Some parent classes have unorthodox naming, in which case suffix with something more standard
  - `Page` (SiteTree)

>   - `Controller` (LeftAndMain, CMSMain)

Reviewer: Subclasses of `LeftAndMain` and `CMSMain` should not be suffixed `Controller` - the only reason we do that right now is because there's too much jammed into `LeftAndMain` that really ought to be in a `AdminController` class that `LeftAndMain` subclasses.
```suggestion
```

Author: Creating an AdminController is on the cards, and presumably we'd keep the forced authentication and $url_segment etc for easy routing.

From CMS 6 we'd want to change a bunch of the admin controllers that currently extend LeftAndMain to now extend AdminController.  In that instance I guess maybe it would make sense to stuff those subclasses with with "AdminController" rather than "Controller" since it's more descriptive?

Reviewer 2: I think there's a case that any class that adds a section in the CMS UI should be called "SomethingAdmin" whether or not they extend `ModelAdmin`.

Author: Have updated to say that subclasses of LeftAndMain intended to be in the CMS Menu should be suffixed with `Admin`

> - Do not suffix classes if they are a subclass any of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not suffix classes if they are a direct subclass any of the following:
```

Author: Have removed this bit

  - `DataObject`
- Suffix interfaces with `Interface`
- Suffix traits with `Trait`

> - Prefix abstract classes with `Abstract`

Reviewer: I can maaaaybe agree with interface and abstract here but not trait. Can you please explain your rationale?

Author: It just makes it more obvious that it's a trait.

The other standard is to suffix it with 'able' e.g. Injectable, Composable, etc.  That also makes it obvious that it's a trait.  However we've only done that a few times, and sometimes it might just sounds awkward to suffix "able" to a word.

There's plenty of stuff like `trait UploadReceiver` which simply doesn't sound trait like, though if it were called "UploadReceiverTrait" it's obvious that it's a trait

Reviewer: I think having a rule that it must be either:
1. an adjective with the "able" or "ible" suffix (`Injectable`, `Composable`, `Combustible`, `Thingable`), OR
1. if it can't be that, it must be a verb followed by a noun, describing what it _does_ (`RecievesUpload`, `ThrowsException`, `DoesThing`)

That to me is much better than just putting trait at the end - it provides guidance for how to name the trait in a way that describes what it _is_ or _does_, and is still clear by naming convention that it's a trait.

Author: > must be a verb followed by a noun, describing what it does 

Yeah, well you've got a very good grasp on the english language, others (I put myself in this camp), not so much. We'll forget rules like this.  Also many contributers are english as a second language.  We're likely to go around in circles arguing about the correct way to use the english language

>> ThrowsException

`trait ThrowException` - if I saw something suffixed with `Exception` my brain at first scan would mis-categorise this as an Exception, not a trait.

I've also recommended we suffix interfaces with `Interface`, suffixing with `Trait` is going to be consistent with that.  We also got a recommendation to suffix extensions with `Extension` so again it's consistent.  I just want things to require as little brain power as possible to comprehend

Reviewer: The `ThrowsException` name was a bad example, I'll accept that. But I think the general concept is still good.

> We'll forget rules like this

That's fine, that's half the reason why we're documenting these standards. I think if there are some clear examples, then it should be pretty easy to see when someone is breaking the pattern.

> I've also recommended we suffix interfaces with `Interface`

I'm not super sure I like that either - but even so, suffixing `Trait` is only consistent with it in-so-far as suffixing `Class` is. But we don't suffix classes with `Class` because we have other rules about how to name them. If we have other rules about how to name traits, we don't need to suffix them with `Trait`.

> I just want things to require as little brain power as possible to comprehend

That's fine and a good goal. But we will still need to think of names for traits beyond the suffix. I don't really want traits named something like `ModelTrait` or `ControllerTrait` because we haven't given any guidance beyond sticking `Trait` on the end.

All of this said, if at the end of the day it's only you and I who care about this and nobody else chimes in, I'll accept suffixing traits with `Trait` since at least that's better than having _no guidance at all_ which is our current status.

Reviewer 5: FWIW PSR has naming conventions on it's own contributions that includes prefixes/suffixes: https://www.php-fig.org/bylaws/psr-naming-conventions

My opinion is that the `Interface` and `Abstract` suffix/prefix are good. I personally prefer the `Trait` suffix too, but am not too fussed what's decided there.

Reviewer 2: I disagree with suffixing interfaces, abstract classes and traits. A lot of the time you use these contructs in context where you shouldn't concern yourself with whether they are an interface or abstract class.

Author: Removed bit about interfaces / abstract / traits

### Other naming conventions

> - Extensions should match the name of the class they are extending. For example, an extension class that's added to LeftAndMain should be called LeftAndMainExtension

Reviewer: I disagree - this would result in anything that is for a `LeftAndMain` extension being dumped in the same class, even completely unrelated code. It is also difficult if there's something that's for a specific _purpose_ that doesn't have to be for a specific _class_ and could be applied to a number of different classes.

I think it's better to name things after their purpose, such as `RecursivePublishableExtension`. You then know what sort of logic is going on in there - which IMO is a lot more useful than knowing what class(es) that extension is intended to be applied for. You can always add that in the PHPDoc if there are specific classes it should be for.

Reviewer 2: To the extent that this is a problem, I think it will mostly be a problem for third party modules that are trying to hook something into framework.

Most of our extensions are generic and are not targeted at a specific class. 

To the extent this makes sense it will in scenarios like https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-linkfield/blob/4/src/Extensions/LeftAndMain.php

I would be inclined to threat those more as edge cases.

Author: We won't always be able to get a good purpose, for instance https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-campaign-admin/blob/2/src/CampaignAdminExtension.php - I'd rather have sometime like this just called LeftAndMainExtension (it's added to LeftAndMain) than DistFilesExtension.  Also the extension could later have more stuff added to it, then you end up with loads of little files that each only have one method.  

Also just to link to the [discussion on trait naming](https://github.com/silverstripe/developer-docs/pull/397/files#r1383933659), what would RecursivePublishableExtension be according to verb-noun proposal you have for traits? (extensions and traits are very similar). ResursivelyPublishesThingsExtension? (I literally don't know) Naming is hard :-p

Part of why I like LeftAndMainExtension is there's simply less having to think about what to call the thing

Reviewer 2: To the extent that an Extension is targeted to specific Class and is just aimed at implementing generic logic like registering routes or JS files, I think calling them by the name of their targeted class is fine.

If the Extension is not targeted at any particular class or is fulfilling a very specific feature like `RecursivePublishable`, I think it makes more sense to call it by it's purpose.

Author: Have removed this whole section

- When choosing names for variables and methods use the guiding principle "make it as obvious as possible"

> - Ensure that variable names and method naming is consistent. For example, if you are creating a new class and have a variable named `$itemValue`` which is passed to another method in the same class, the paramater name for that method should also be `$itemValue``.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Ensure that variable names and method naming is consistent. For example, if you are creating a new class and have a variable named `$itemValue` which is passed to another method in the same class, the paramater name for that method should also be `$itemValue`.
```

Author: Have removed instead

> - Ensure that variable names and method naming is consistent. For example, if you are creating a new class and have a variable named `$itemValue`` which is passed to another method in the same class, the paramater name for that method should also be `$itemValue``.

Reviewer: > the paramater name for that method should also be `$itemValue`.

I don't necessarily agree with this. The variable should be named in a way that makes sense in the context it's being used. If I have a variable that holds a list of ancestors, it might be named `$ancestors` - but then if I pass that into a method that accepts a generic list and does some generic manipulation, the parameter in the method might be `$list`.

`$list` would be too generic in my method, but `$ancestors` would be confusing at best in the method I'm passing it to.

Reviewer 5: +1

Author: Makes sense, this is probably more a peer review detail rather than some kind of enforceable standard

Reviewer 2: As a general principle, I think it's OK.

It's worth remembering that those are meant to be best practices. Sometimes, best practices won't make sense in specific instances.

Author: Have removed

## Directory naming - src dir

> - Put similar types of classes in the same directory. For example, put Controllers in a Controllers directory

Reviewer 2: @mfendeksilverstripe once made a cool show-and-tell arguing for namespacing projects by feature and using simpler class name that makes sense when taking into consideration the class FQN.

For example a class like `SilverStripe\CMS\Jobs\ExternalLinkReportJob` would become something like SilverStripe\CMS\ExternalLinkReport\Job`.

To some degree, we have somewhat adopted the "namespace-by-feature" approach in framework.

Philosophically, I prefer Mojmir's approach. Although, we're probably too far down the current path to justify switching.

I'm not arguing for anything here. Just pondering what an alternative approach could look like.

Reviewer: Mojmir's approach is fantastic for bespoke projects. But it makes finding code more difficult in the context of the core and supported modules imo.

- Put DataObjects in a directory called Models

> - Do not group different class types together in a directory relating to a single feature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  If you end up with a lot of classes of a specific type with some clear grouping, you can use subdirectories to group them - e.g. `src/Models/Sports` if you have a ton of sports related models.
```
This is useful, and is something we should be doing more - there are some cases where it's hard to find what you're looking for because there's too many classes in a single folder.

Author: Yeah that example you gave makes sense

Basically what I want to avoid is the "TopPage" directory this is completely out of place in https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-elemental/tree/5/src

Reviewer 2: If you're dealing with a really small utility module with 3 or 4 classes, I think we should feel comfortable ignoring this best practice and putting everything in one namespace.

Looking at some classes that are intended to be used by other module, I think their could be a case for putting them in the root of their namespace. (e.g. LinkField or Link could be in the root of the linkfield module.)

But as a general principle, I agree with the best practice.

Reviewer: I don't think we should just put things in the root namespace because the module starts out small. You never know how big something will get, and it's nicer to be consistent even if it stays small. But that's not a discussion for this pr.

Reviewer 2: @GuySartorelli That's fair.

Author: Updated

> - Use initial caps pluralised for the directory naming e.g. use `Controllers` rather than `Controller` or `controllers`

Reviewer: Why pluralised specifically? I tend to think we should not use capitals. Though if this is because that's what we predominantly have right now then I can accept that - it would be better to keep that convention than to introduce a large number of breaking changes for something so trivial.

Author: Seeing it non-pluralised hurts my brain

If it's a directory of many controllers, it should call it "Controllers". Calling it the singular "Controller" is just grammatically incorrect

Reviewer: If that's the only reason, I'd prefer singular as it reads nicer in the namespace (`SilverStripe\Controller\SomeSpecialController`)

Symfony also tends to use singular, so if we're aiming to start using more and more symfony code, it might be nice to align with their namespace naming convention in this case.

That said, if nobody else chimes in, then I'm not too fussed.

Author: Yeah probably reads a little better in the namespace.  Though I don't tend to look at the namespace much though I see directories all the time

Symfony also has yoda conditionals, so I'm too not sure if we should blindly follow symfony on things :-)

Reviewer: I'm not saying "blindly" follow. In this case, we would have our use statements next to use statements for symfony stuff, so it makes sense in this case that they would be similar.

```php
use Symfony/Controller/SomeController;
use SilverStripe/Controller/SomeOtherController;
```

But yeah, directories are _or should be_ namespaces - we want to move more towards a purer PSR12, so we should always keep namespaces in mind when dealing with directories.

Reviewer 2: I think we should have a standard. Don't necessarily care if it's plural or singular.

Author: Had an offline chat, agreed on plural

## Properties and accessors

> - Do not use public properites, instead use a combination of private properites and public getters and setters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not use public properites, instead use a combination of private properites and public getter and setter methods
```

Reviewer 5: Do we explicity say use private now? I feel like whether they're protected/private is contextual (at risk of bringing up the infamous protected/private discussion).

Reviewer: This note is more about explicitly _not_ using public properties. I'd say if there's a public getter and setter method, there's no need for a property to ever be protected, since the subclasses can still access and manipulate the value of the property through those public methods. In my view `protected` is only really sensible for methods, not properties.

Happy to hear alternative views on that though.

Author: ~~Yes contextual, protected is correct if it makes sense at the time, though here I'm explicitly saying default to private.~~

~~Historically it was protected.  Since I've been in the team for the last few years at least it's been private, so I'm making this explicit here~~

Yup talking about properties here.  I'm saying don't do this

```php
class SomeClass 
{
     public string $myProperty = 1;
}
```

Instead do this

```php
class SomeClass 
{
     private string $myProperty = 1;
     
     public getMyProperty(): string
     {
         return $this->myProperty();
     }
     
     public function setMyProperty(string $myProperty): static
     {
         $this->myProperty = $myProperty;
         return $this;
     }
}
```

We *could* do the first example, it is less code after all.  It's just not aligned with all of the Silverstripe code that supports fluent programming

Reviewer 5: I just think you should change `private` to `non-public` or something. It's entirely reasonable that you have a protected property, that may have a public getter that doesn't directly reference the a property, and an extending class wants access to the protected property. I don't think having this document to point back at and say "oh but this says we should make properties private" is good.

Reviewer 2: > In my view protected is only really sensible for methods, not properties.

Generally agree to that. As a general principle, we should nudge subclasses toward using getters to access properties on their parent class to make sure any mutation or validation is honoured.

For example, I think `Extension::$owner` should have been made private and subclasses should be using `Extension::getOwner` instead.

Author: Saying non-public here is fine

Author: Have updated

> - For setters use a combination of a `:static` return type and `return $this` to allow for fluent programming

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For setter methods use a combination of a `:static` return type and `return $this` to allow for fluent programming
```

Reviewer 2: I've grown less fond of this pattern over the years, but we're at a stage where we've used it in so many places, that I don't think we can go back on this approach.

Author: Have updated to 'setter methods'

- Do not use [dynamic properties](https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.oop5.properties.php#language.oop5.properties.dynamic-properties)

## Method and property visibility

> - Use private over protected as this reduces the maintained API surface. Only use protected if there's an immediate reason to upgrade from private.

Reviewer: Are we opening this can of worms discussion again? I disagree with this. I'd go for something more conservative such as

```suggestion
- Constants should be public if they are intended to be used outside of the class hierarchy, protected if they are intended to be used within the class hierarchy, and private if they are only intended to be used inside this one class.
- Prefer private over protected for all new properties. Subclasses can access the properties through the public getter and setter methods.
- Prefer private over protected for new methods, unless there is a clear use case for customising the specific functionality of that method on its own and the method implementation is unlikely to change in the near future.
```

Reviewer 5: I'd go further and remove any line about preference. Our discussion around this ended with a very reasonable breakdown of how to consider visibility that I think is a better approach than this.

For a CMS that encourages extensibility it seems counter-intuative to also encourage private members.

Author: Protected adds API the same way that adding public does.  We have too much API.  Private does not add API.

Extensibility can be achieved via extension hooks.  It's a more conscious approach then spamming out protected methods everywhere "just in case" someone wants it

We've been defaulting to private for years now and there has been very little in the way of negative feedback from the wider community.

Reviewer: > We've been defaulting to private for years now

I haven't been... I've been following the guidelines I've outlined in my suggested edit.

Author: Ah yup your edits are basically want I meant just much better communicated

When I say "default to private" I mean "start with private and if there's some reason to use protected then use that".  That said I personally add very little in the way of protected API.

Older Silverstripe code seems like it was very much "start with protected" - [random example](https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/blob/5/src/Forms/DatetimeField.php).  And yes I get the reason why you'd make everything protected (easier for projects to subclass) - but it also makes maintenance more burdensome because because now everything is set in stone as we need to maintain backwards compatibility.

Reviewer 5: This has been discussed to death, and the culmination was this very appropriate summary by Sam: https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/issues/8996#issuecomment-534785681

I'd prefer we stick to that advice.

Reviewer: I don't see any difference in meaning or intention between that advice and my suggested edit above.

Reviewer 5: I think the wording of what you have implies more of a "default state" where-as what Sam wrote is more of a "think about it". Specifically the `Prefer private over protected for new methods` bit.

Reviewer: Do you have a suggestion for how to better word it within the context of this documentation page?

Reviewer 5: My suggestion is to leave this section as is. It was fine (and the result of a much more detailed conversation).

Author: Sam's recommendation seems aligned with what's being recommended here, e.g. `Don't simply dump class internals in as protected members in the name of extensibility – doing so will be likely to break developers' projects in minor releases`

Possibly my phrasing was just too blunt and has been interpreted as "don't use protected", that's not what my intention is, I'm also saying "think about it", though you should "start with" (default-to) private and if there's an actual reason for going with protected then cool make it protected.

What I want to avoid is what happened in lots of the older files where people just made all the class internals protected and didn't use private at all.

We do need to mention this in this document since this is the place we'll point to when discussing peer review. We don't want to point to a big long separate RFC whenever this comes up.

Reviewer 2: I also like Guy's suggestion.

Defaulting to private is probably a good thing and using `protected` if you can imagine a plausible scenario where a developer could want to call this in a sub class.

The biggest concern I've had with this over the years is that `protected` methods and properties are part of our API. It's easy to make a private method protected after the fact ... and if someone asks later on, we should acquiesce unless there's a really good reason no to.

Reviewer: Perhaps that last part should be part of the documentation.

Author: Have updated

> - Note that there is a lot of legacy Silverstripe code where protected was used over private.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think we need to say this - maybe remove all of these sorts of statements and just have a blanket statement at the top that legacy code may not follow these standards, but that we should uphold them for any new code.

Reviewer 5: Please don't say this. It's not legacy code to use protected.

Author: Have removed

## Interfaces

> - If there are or there's a realistic expection that there will be multiple class implementations of something then create an interface and use that for parameter and return types, and as the service key for injector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create an interface for typehinting if there are (or are likely to be in the future) multiple classes implementing a specific feature. Use the interface for typehints (e.g. for parameters, properties, and return types), and as the service key for injector.
```
Just rewriting to be a little easier to read

Reviewer: Maybe we should give an example of when this is appropriate, and when it isn't.

Author: Updated, have not provided example

> - If there is only a single implemention and no forseeable expectation of more implementaitons being added, then do not create an interface for the single class implementation because this would only be adding unecessarily complexity.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- If there is only a single implementation and no foreseeable expectation of more implementations being added, then do not create an interface for the single class implementation because this would only be adding unnecessary complexity.
```

Author: Updated

> - If there is only a single implemention and no forseeable expectation of more implementaitons being added, then do not create an interface for the single class implementation because this would only be adding unecessarily complexity.

Reviewer: This just reads like a repetition of the above, but written differently - maybe we remove this one and just keep the first one?

Author: I like having it as an explicit point so we can mention when asked to there's peer review feedback to add an interface for something that really doesn't need one

Reviewer: I'm okay with this now that I'm seeing them again.

## Typing

- Aim to strongly type all new properties, method parameters, and method return types.

> - The exception to this is adding a new method or property to a class which is entirely untyped and adding typed API would be very inconsistent with the rest of the file. In this instance use PHP docblocks to define types.

Reviewer 3: I think the general approach here was to still add the types to new methods/props so that it's added gradually wherever we touch something, rather than not adding it and creating more technical debt that will need to be addressed at some point anyway.

Reviewer: I agree with Michal

```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I agree with Michal and Guy. We should aim to progressively strongly type everything.

Author: OK work for me

Author: Updated

> - If there are duplicate strong types and docblock types then remove the old docblock types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there are duplicate strong types and docblock types then remove the old docblock types - unless the dockblock gives more context about the parameter or return value.
```

Reviewer 2: I think this formulation might be a bit better.
```suggestion
- Only provide docblock types for strongly typed parameters or return values if more context is provided.
```

Author: Updated

> - Do not strongly type existing API outside of a new major version as it's an API breakage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
We already have a definition of public API which defines what is and what isn't an API breakage - we don't need to reiterate that here. Maybe add a blanket statement up the top somewhere referring to the public API page instead.

Reviewer 2: I agree, this is not a best practice. It's a hard rule.

Author: Have removed

## Mixed types

> - Where possible avoid using mixed types, including type unions, because this leads to complicated and brittle code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Where practical avoid using mixed types, including type unions, because this leads to complicated and brittle code.
```
It's _possible_ to avoid it everywhere - but that could lead to even worse code, with a `setValueButAsABoolean()`, `setValueButAsAString()` etc when each of those types should be valid for some logical reason.

Author: Updated

> - Try to avoid using nullable scalars and instead use the default value of the scalar instead of null. One exception to this is for when `null` means 'uninitialised`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Try to avoid using nullable scalars and instead use the default value of the scalar instead of null. One exception to this is for when `null` means 'uninitialised'.
```

Author: Updated

> - Avoid the use of the splat `...` parameter as this makes API enforcement difficult. If you need to support multiple arguments then use an array parameter type.

Reviewer: Can you please explain the rationale for this? What do you mean by "this makes API enforcement difficult"?

Reviewer 5: You should probably also specify "for function arguments" or relate it specifically to types as it's under the types heading.

Reviewer 2: I don't necessary think we need a best practice for this. I can't think of the last time I felt like using this syntax in PHP.

Reviewer: If you're saying "we don't need a best practice for this because people just won't use it anyway", I disagree. If you're saying "we don't need a best practice for this because it's fine for people to use it" then that's fine.

Author: I think just drop this from the list. There was one fairly recent issue we had with it because a splat param doesn't allow you to add more parms after it if it turns out there's a future need. However it's standard part of PHP so we probably shouldn't make recommendations are its usage

Author: Have removed

> - Avoid the use of the splat `...` parameter as this makes API enforcement difficult. If you need to support multiple arguments then use an array parameter type.

Reviewer: Also we should probably have a "never use `func_get_args()`" rule.

Author: Added

## Object instantiation

> - Use Injector to instantiate objects rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For classes that use the `Injectable` trait, use Injector to instantiate objects rather than the `new` keyword. This is done as it allows projects to swap out classes with different implementations.
- For third-party classes, if there is a clear use case for customising the functionality provided by that third-party code, use Injector to instantiate objects rather than the `new` keyword.
```

Reviewer: Maybe also something about when to wire up services through yaml injector config.

Reviewer: I didn't see that this is already covered below - maybe just remove this altogether.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 5: There should be something in here that clarifies that your talking about instantiating services, not DTOs or the like, which don't necessarily need to be resolved through Injector.

Reviewer 2: > - For third-party classes, if there is a clear use case for customising the functionality provided by that third-party code, use Injector to instantiate objects rather than the `new` keyword.

I disagree with the "if there is a clear use case" part of this one. My instinct would be to use the Injector pretty much all the time for consistency and to centralise all configuration in our YML.

Author: Have updated

> - Note there is only a minimal performance penalty for this, though there is a downside that IDE type hinting stops working. During development you may wish to use the new keyword for this reason and change it to use injector before submitting your PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't think this is necessarily useful to say - _maybe_ we can keep the part about performance, but that's not really a standard so probably belongs outside the list.
The part about what people do during development doesn't belong here IMO.

Reviewer 2: There's probably a balance between providing a useful sheet cheat and completeness. That's a good candidate for removal.

Author: Removed

- For classes that use the Injectable trait use the `::create()` static method.

> - For objects that do not have the Injectable trait, use `Injector::inst()->get({classname})`

Reviewer: Note that this specific syntax will get a singleton - probably add a link here to the injector docs instead of specifying a specific syntax here.
```suggestion
- For objects that do not have the Injectable trait, [use `Injector` directly](/developer_guides/extending/injector/#basic-usage)
```

Author: Have removed

> - For objects that do not have the Injectable trait, use `Injector::inst()->get({classname})`

Reviewer: I don't agree with this one - for our own code, we should _always_ use the `Injectable` trait if something is intended to be injected. If it doesn't use that trait, we shouldn't inject it.

Author: So you're saying we simply shouldn't recommend `Injector::inst()->get({classname})` like syntax?

Reviewer 6: Yes. Instead, we should link to the injector docs which give a number of different ways to use injector depending on your use case.
If you want a singleton, `Injector::inst()->get({classname})` is good. If you want a _new instance_, you want to use `Injector::inst()->create({classname})`, etc. Let the docs about injector tell you how to use injector, and for this standard just say "use the injector"

Reviewer: If it is our code, and we haven't used the `Injectable` trait on it, then yes I'm saying don't recommend injector. We should use the `Injectable` trait on our classes that we want to use the injector to instantiate. We should use the `new` keyword to instantiate classes in our own code that we have chosen not to use the `Injectable` trait on.

For third-party code it's different of course, but that's a different list item.

Reviewer 2: Can you think of any examples where we had a class that we explicitly decided not to make Injectable?

Reviewer: I'm sure there are plenty of classes in the codebase that don't use that trait.

Author: Have updated to say using Injector if it's Injectable, otherwise either add Injectable or use new keyword

> - This also includes instantiation of third party classes `<<< @todo why? discuss`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If there is a clear use case for customising the functionality provided by that third-party code, use `Injector` to instantiate these as well.`<<< @todo why? discuss`
```
e.g. symfony mailer

Reviewer: If we remove the part about injecting non-`Injectable` objects above, add a link to this point, i.e:
``[use `Injector`](/developer_guides/extending/injector/#basic-usage)``

Author: Have removed

> - The exception to this is for unit-tests where you should use the `new` because there you need to ensure you're testing a specific class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Always use the `new` keyword when instantiating objects in unit tests unless you are explicitly testing the injector logic.
```
Rewritten so it stands as its own as a standard.

If there are other standards you've got here which are referring to other standards with language like "the exception to this" or "this also applies", please rewrite them in a similar way, or indent them so they're a sublist under a specific standard.

## Extensions and traits

> - Use the DataExtension class for extending DataObjects.

Reviewer: I don't agree with this. I think we should actually just deprecate the `DataExtension` class.
`DataExtension` results in unnecessary method calls, since it implements no-op extension hook methods. I can't think of a single thing that is useful about the class.

Author: Yeah looking at the DataExtension class now it does seem a bit pointless :-)

Reviewer 2: Maybe we create a follow up card to deprecate it in CMS 6?

Author: Done https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/issues/11050

> - Use the Extension class for extending non-DataObjects.

Reviewer: - Use backticks when referring to code (please apply this across the entire document).
- Link to the extension docs.

> - Typically you shouldn't use native PHP traits. A common gotcha is mistakenly using a trait on a DataObject to add a private static config property. This doesn't work because private static config properties are a Silverstripe specific thing and the Silverstripe DataExtension will correctly merge them. However traits are unable to merge private static config properites.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Typically you shouldn't use native PHP traits. A common gotcha is mistakenly using a trait on a DataObject to add a private static config property. This doesn't work because private static config properties are a Silverstripe specific thing and the Silverstripe DataExtension will correctly merge them. However traits are unable to merge private static config properties.
```

Reviewer: I don't necessarily agree with this standard. I'd prefer instead that we have clearer guidelines about when to use a trait for composable functionality.

e.g. the `Form::addExtraClass()` and related methods are also implemented on `FormField` - these would be great as a trait because we reduce code reuse, there's no expectation that these methods should be dynamically added to any third-party classes, they don't require adding/changing configuration properties or any knowledge of the _type_ of class they're being applied to, and critically they add a new property to the class. Anything that adds a per-instance property cannot be done in an `Extension` because extensions are singletons.

So maybe something like this instead:

```suggestion
- Use a trait instead of an `Extension` when:
    - the composable functionality relies on per-instance properties (these can't be added to extensions)
    - the composable functionality doesn't add or modify configuration properties or values
    - there's no expectation that the composable functionality should be applied to third-party code.
- Use an `Extension` instead of a trait when:
    - the composable functionality doesn't rely on per-instance properties
    - the composable functionality adds or modifies configuration properties or values
    - there's an expectation that the composable functionality should be applied to third-party code.
```

Author: Updated

### Extension hooks

> - Naming convention for extension hooks is `update{methodName}` where methodName has any leading `get` omitted has the remaining first letter uppercased.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Extension hooks for getter methods are named `update{MethodName}` where Method is the name of the getter method without the leading "get" (e.g. `getMyValue()` could have an extension hook named `updateMyValue()`).
- Extension hooks that need to apply before or after a method executes should be named `onBefore{MethodName}` or `onAfter{MethodName}` respectively (e.g. `processSomething()` could have an extension hook named `onBeforeProcessSomething()`).
```
We could also do away with the "on" part - so we get `beforeProcessSomething()` instead. I'd be happy either way.

Reviewer: That first point should probably even be more generic than that, and be "any time an extension hook is intended to updated a value" instead of just for getter methods. E.g. `updateDeleteTables()` in https://github.com/silverstripe/silverstripe-framework/blob/8680b6bfb93235547bfac29fcbd9edc8b13c7ab9/src/ORM/DataObject.php#L1752

Author: > We could also do away with the "on" part 

I think the "on" does have some merit as it makes it more recognizable as an extension hook, similar to the `get` prefix discussion elsewhere in this PR to make accessors more obvious what they are, and the 'update' prefix for most other hooks.

I think this may be more important if the hook is added via `$this->invokeWithExtensions('onBeforeSendResponse', $obj)` vs regular `$this->extend('onBeforeSendResponse', $obj);` because the former also allows the hooks to be implemented directly on subclasses rather than only on extensions.  In that scenario it's more obvious that `function onBeforeSendResponse(&$obj)'` is a hook vs `function beforeSendResponse(&$obj);`

Author: Have rewritten to make it explicit there are two hook scenarios:
- `update` hooks that update the value before it's returned from a method
- `onBefore/onAfter` hooks that update a value before or after calling another method within the method

### Unit testing

> - The unit test method name should match the method that it's testing with the first letter of the method uppercased and the word `test` prefixed e.g. for the method `myMethodName()` the unit test method should be called `testMyMethodName()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unit test method names should match the method that they're testing with the first letter of the method uppercased and the word `test` prefixed (e.g. for the method `myMethodName()` the unit test method should be called `testMyMethodName()`).
```

Reviewer: Note removing "the" at the start of the sentence - please apply this to all standards in this document.

Author: Updated

> - Aim to use DataProvider's to provide test case data as it makes code much cleaner and it makes it very easy to add additional test cases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Aim to use `DataProvider`s to provide test case data as it makes code much cleaner and it makes it very easy to add further test cases.
```

Author: Updated

Reviewer: Still says "additional"?

Author: Updated

> - Aim to use DataProvider's to provide test case data as it makes code much cleaner and it makes it very easy to add additional test cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Aim to use the `@dataProvider` annotation to provide test case data as it makes code much cleaner and it makes it very easy to add additional test cases.
```
As an alternative to Michal's suggestion

Author: Updated to use this instead

> - The DataProvider method name should be same as the test case method name it's providing for with the leading work `test` substituted for `provide` e.g. for `testSomething()` the DataProvider is `provideSomething()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Data provider method names should be same as the test case method name they're providing for with the leading work `test` substituted for `provide` (e.g. for `testSomething()` the DataProvider is `provideSomething()`).
```
Note the example in parenthesis. Please apply this to all examples in the document.

Reviewer 2: I would add something like "DataProvider's array key should describe the scenario it's testing".

Author: Updated

> - Typically you should use yml fixture files for creating fixtures, though this is a fairly loose recommendation. Often it will make sense to "create them manually" in PHP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Unless you need to explicitly create dynamic fixtures, fixtures should be added via yml fixture files.
```
Giving a little bit more guidance here is better, I think.

Author: Updated

> - Using reflection to change the visibility of a private or protected method so that it can be independently tested is usually OK. At a practical level sometimes only testing public methods is overly clunky.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It's usually OK to use reflection to change the visibility of a private or protected method so that it can be independently. At a practical level sometimes only testing public methods is overly clunky.
```
Moving the "it's ok" part at the beginning, since it's giving context for the test of that sentence. It's easier to read this way as you only need to keep "it's ok" in your brain while reading the rest of the sentence, instead of holding the whole sentence in your brain until you get to "it's ok"

Author: Updated

> - Using reflection to change the visibility of a private or protected method so that it can be independently tested is usually OK. At a practical level sometimes only testing public methods is overly clunky.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Using reflection to change the visibility of a private or protected method so that it can be independently tested is usually OK.
```
I don't think that needs to be there. Maybe even this instead:
```suggestion
- Using reflection to change the visibility of a private or protected method so that it can be independently tested is usually OK. It is generally preferable to keep a smaller public API surface and use reflection to test functionality, rather than making the API public just so it can be tested.
```

Author: Updated

### Admin-only controllers

> - Controllers that are only intended to be used from within the CMS should extend [`LeftAndMain`](api:SilverStripe\Admin\LeftAndMain). This will handle routing for you and ensures that only authenticated users are able to access their endpoints.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Controllers that are only intended to be used from within the CMS should extend [`LeftAndMain`](api:SilverStripe\Admin\LeftAndMain). This will handle routing for you and it ensures that only authenticated users are able to access their endpoints.
```

Reviewer: I don't agree with this. `LeftAndMain` is way overused for that purpose and the fact you have to hide the section in `_config.php` and don't use probably a large majority of `LeftAndMain` functionality in your given controller is a massive code smell. I think we should leave this out as a "standard". We don't have to create new admin controller often anyway, and next time we do create one we should look at finding a cleaner way to do it.

And frankly the chances of anyone not on the CMS Squad wanting to do this in a PR is highly unlikely so there's no harm in not documenting this until we have a better way to do it, IMO.

Author: Have removed the section

> - For small modules that are expected to only have a single admin-only controller, the `$url_segment` private static configuration property should match the second half of the composer name of the module e.g. for a `LinkFieldController` in `silverstripe/linkfield` the controllers `$url_segment` should be "linkfield".

Reviewer: I don't think I agree with this. The url segment should be something meaningful for the controller in question. If the controller in question does interact with the actual link _field_ then yes that makes sense. If the linkfield controller was actually a model admin for managing links though, `linkfield` might not be the most appropriate URL segment.

I think we can leave this out as far as standards go and let the developer and peer reviewer come to a consensus about an appropriate URL segment on a per-controller basis.

Reviewer: Another reason not to do this is just because we don't expect a second controller for that module _now_ doesn't mean it won't ever have one. If we're only using the "linkfield" segment because of this standard, and then later we add a second controller that would be _way_ more appropriate to use that segment, then we've painted ourselves into a corner.

Author: Yeah fair, this probably not the right place to come up with a definitive guide to CMS URL standards.

Reviewer 2: Since we're literally in the process of coming up with a new way of doing this, maybe we skip this one for now?

Author: Have removed

## Calling third-party dependencies

> - If you directly call a third-party dependency, then ensure the dependency is required in the modules `composer.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you directly reference a third-party dependency in code, then ensure the dependency is required in the module's `composer.json` file.
```

Author: Updated
